Update node authentication passport OIDC (#1015)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2018-05-18-node-authentication-with-passport-and-oidc.md

Then use the `express` command to scaffold a base Node and Express application.

```bash
express -e --git okta-node-passport-oidc-example
```

The generator will quickly create a new app in the **passport-oidc-example** folder. It uses the Embedded JavaScript syntax for the view templates and will generate a base **.gitignore** file. There will be instructions at the bottom of the output telling you how to proceed.

```bash
change directory:
  $ cd okta-node-passport-oidc-example

install dependencies:
  $ npm install

run the app:
  $ DEBUG=okta-node-passport-oidc-example:* npm start
```

Go ahead and change into the new directory and install the dependencies. I use [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) for my Node development which has excellent support for writing and debugging Node applications. It works on all platforms and is completely free. Running the application with a debugger attached is as easy as hitting the `F5` key!

> Once VS Code is installed, you can open the project from the command line using the `code` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've installed VS Code, you can open the project from the command line using the `code` command.
```
if you're going to change this sentence, I'd recommend going from passive to active voice instead of adjusting the verb choice.

app.use(express.static(path.join(__dirname, 'public')));
```

add the following configuration.

```js

> app.use(session({

Reviewer 2: `MyVoiceIsMyPassportVerifyMe` nice reference!!! 😂

}));
```

> Below that, add the following configuration that tells Express to use Passport for sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following configuration that tells Express to use Passport for sessions.
```
maybe just simplify the spatial references?..

```js
// set up passport
passport.use('oidc', new Strategy({
  issuer: '{OKTA_OAUTH2_ISSUER}',
  authorizationURL: 'https://{OKTA_DOMAIN}/oauth2/default/v1/authorize',
  tokenURL: 'https://{OKTA_DOMAIN}/oauth2/default/v1/token',
  userInfoURL: 'https://{OKTA_DOMAIN}/oauth2/default/v1/userinfo',
  clientID: '{OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID}',
  clientSecret: '{OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET}',
  callbackURL: 'http://localhost:3000/authorization-code/callback',
  scope: 'openid profile'
}, (issuer, profile, done) => {
  return done(null, profile);
}));
```

Be sure to replace the placeholder variables with your actual Okta information.

- Replace `{OKTA_OAUTH2_ISSUER}` with your Org's OAuth2 Issuer URL.
- Replace `{OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID}` with the Client ID of your application.
- Replace `{OKTA_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET}` with the Client secret of your application.
- Replace `{OKTA_DOMAIN}` with your Org's Okta domain. It is the same as your OAuth2 Issuer URL without the `https://` and `/oauth2/default` segments.

> The code above sets the name of the strategy as 'oidc' and set all the URLs that the strategy needs to know to pull off the authorization code flow for OpenID Connect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code above sets the name of the strategy as 'oidc.' Then it sets all the URLs that the strategy needs to complete the authorization code flow for OpenID Connect. 
```
Two sentences to route around the complexity. Maybe you don't even need a second verb: "Then it sets all the URLs that the strategy needs for the OpenID Connect authorization code." - but maybe this one is too terse. Your call. :-)

}
```

This function checks the request's `isAuthenticated()` method and passes the request on to the next handler if the user is logged in. If not, it redirects the user to the login page and kicks off the login process.

> Now add that middleware to the routes you need to be protected. In this case, just the profile route for now.

Reviewer 2: consider changing for more active phrasing

> Now add that middleware to the routes you need to protect.

It's just that simple. This route handler calls the `logout()` method on the incoming request, destroys the session, and redirects the user to the homepage.

> That's all the basics of getting Passport.js to handle an OpenID Connect authentication provider that doesn't already have a specific strategy in the Passport.js library! You can find the source code for the example created in this tutorial [on GitHub](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-node-passport-oidc-example).

Reviewer 2: 🙌🏼  🏆
